Document HA setup for SCDF on K8s (#255)
spring-io/dataflow.spring.io: content/documentation/pages/6-recipes/9-cloud-providers/1-gke-regional-clusters.md

```
$ kubectl create -f mysql/
deployment.apps/mysql created
persistentvolumeclaim/mysql created
secret/mysql created
service/mysql created
```

Get the volume name:

```
$ kubectl get pvc/mysql
NAME    STATUS   VOLUME                                     CAPACITY   ACCESS MODES   STORAGECLASS   AGE
mysql   Bound    pvc-24f2acb5-17cd-45e1-8064-34bf602e408f   8Gi        RWO            standard       3m1s
```

Check the zone the volume is located in:

```
$ kubectl get pv/pvc-24f2acb5-17cd-45e1-8064-34bf602e408f -o jsonpath='{.metadata.labels.failure-domain\.beta\.kubernetes\.io/zone}'
us-east1-d
```

Check the MySQL pod to verify its running and the node allocated to:

```
$ kubectl get pod/mysql-b94654bd4-9zpt2 -o=custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,STATUS:.status.phase,NODE:.spec.nodeName
NAME                    STATUS    NODE
mysql-b94654bd4-9zpt2   Running   gke-regional-demo-default-pool-fb3e6608-0rcc
```

And finally the zone the node resides in can be verified by:

```
$ kubectl get node gke-regional-demo-default-pool-fb3e6608-0rcc -o jsonpath='{.metadata.labels.failure-domain\.beta\.kubernetes\.io/zone}'
us-east1-d
```

### Deploying RabbitMQ

<!--NOTE-->

> In this recipe, an instance of RabbitMQ is being deployed to a single zone. Please see the relevant high availablity documentation of the [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/documentation.html) product for more details. In the event of a zone failure, RabbitMQ may be unavailable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this recipe, an instance of RabbitMQ is being deployed to a single zone. Please see the relevant high availability documentation of the [RabbitMQ](https://www.rabbitmq.com/documentation.html) product for more details. In the event of a zone failure, RabbitMQ may be unavailable.  Setting up RabbitMQ for HA is outside the scope of SCDF and this recipe.
```

The node in which a the pod gets scheduled to may not be a concern, just that it resides in a specific zone. All nodes in the cluster automatically get labels assigned, one of those representing the zone the node resides which we will utilize.

Make the following modification to the `rabbitmq/rabbitmq-deployment.yaml` file to place RabbitMQ on a node in the `us-east1-b` zone:

```
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone: us-east1-b
```

Deploy the manifests:

```
$ kubectl create -f rabbitmq/
deployment.apps/rabbitmq created
service/rabbitmq created
```

Get the node the pod is deployed to:

```
$ kubectl get pod/rabbitmq-6d65f675d9-4vksj -o jsonpath='{.spec.nodeName}'
gke-regional-demo-default-pool-ea10f422-5f72
```

Get the zone the node resides in:

```
$ kubectl get node gke-regional-demo-default-pool-ea10f422-5f72 -o jsonpath='{.metadata.labels.failure-domain\.beta\.kubernetes\.io/zone}'
us-east1-b
```

### Deploying Skipper

> The deployment of Skipper will consist of 3 replicas. No persistent storage is needed and its desired to have a replica running in each zone. Multiple replica's should not reside in the same zone as another. One way to do this would be using [Pod Anti Affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#inter-pod-affinity-and-anti-affinity).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The deployment of Skipper will consist of 3 replicas. No persistent storage is needed and its desired to have a replica running in each zone. Multiple replicas should not reside in the same zone as another. One way to do this would be using [Pod Anti Affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#inter-pod-affinity-and-anti-affinity).
```

scdf-server-5ddf7bbd4f-hlf9h   Running   gke-regional-demo-default-pool-e121c001-zhrt
scdf-server-5ddf7bbd4f-vnjh6   Running   gke-regional-demo-default-pool-ea10f422-5f72
```

Verify the pods are deployed to the same nodes as Skipper:

```
$ kubectl get pods -l app=skipper -o=custom-columns=NAME:.metadata.name,STATUS:.status.phase,NODE:.spec.nodeName
NAME                       STATUS    NODE
skipper-6fd7bb796c-flm44   Running   gke-regional-demo-default-pool-e121c001-zhrt
skipper-6fd7bb796c-l99dj   Running   gke-regional-demo-default-pool-ea10f422-5f72
skipper-6fd7bb796c-vrf9m   Running   gke-regional-demo-default-pool-fb3e6608-0lx2
```

Verify connectivity to Data Flow:

```
$ SCDF_IP=$(kubectl get svc/scdf-server -o jsonpath='{.status.loadBalancer.ingress[*].ip}')
$ curl -s http://$SCDF_IP/about | jq
{
  "featureInfo": {
    "analyticsEnabled": true,
    "streamsEnabled": true,
    "tasksEnabled": true,
    "schedulesEnabled": true,
    "grafanaEnabled": true
  },
  "versionInfo": {
    "implementation": {
      "name": "spring-cloud-dataflow-server",
      "version": "2.6.0.BUILD-SNAPSHOT"
    },
...
...
...
```

## Deploying Streams and Tasks

> Streams and Tasks deployed through Data Flow can also benefit from various placement options just as with server components. There may be situations where certain streams or tasks should only be deployed to specific zones or even nodes themselves. Deployed streams and tasks are applications just like any others so they also benefit from Kubernetes rescheduling them onto other nodes in the event of failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Streams and Tasks deployed through Data Flow can also benefit from various placement options, just as with server components. There may be situations where certain streams or tasks should only be deployed to specific zones or even nodes themselves. Deployed streams and tasks are applications just like any others, so they also benefit from Kubernetes re-scheduling them onto other nodes in the event of failures.
```

> Since streams and tasks are deployed to Kubernetes via Data Flow and Skipper, rather than applying these features to yaml manifests they are set through deployer properties. See the [Deployer Property](https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-dataflow/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#configuration-kubernetes-deployer) section of the Spring Cloud Data Flow reference manual for a full list of available deployer properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since streams and tasks are deployed to Kubernetes via Data Flow and Skipper, rather than applying these features to YAML manifests, they are set through deployer properties. See the [Deployer Property](https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-dataflow/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#configuration-kubernetes-deployer) section of the Spring Cloud Data Flow reference manual for a full list of available deployer properties.
```

The deployer properties of interest are:

Node selector:

- deployment.nodeSelector

Tolerations:

- tolerations.key
- tolerations.effect
- tolerations.operator
- tolerations.tolerationSeconds
- tolerations.value

Node Affinity:

- affinity.nodeAffinity

Pod Affinity:

- affinity.podAffinity

Pod Anti-Affinity:

- affinity.podAntiAffinity

For a concrete example of how to set deployment properties at the application or server level, see the [Tolerations](https://docs.spring.io/spring-cloud-dataflow/docs/current/reference/htmlsingle/#_tolerations) section of the reference manual. The same pattern applies to other properties, using different property names and values.

## Conclusion

> In this recipe we have setup a Regional cluster in GKE providing the infrastructure to provide high availablity control planes and workers across multiple zones in a region. We explored different options for application placement using constructs such as node selector, pod affinity, and pod anti-affinity. Each application and environment will have their own specalized needs, but this recipe should provide a starting point on how standard Kubernetes constructs can be used with Data Flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this recipe, we have set up a Regional cluster in GKE, providing the infrastructure to provide high availability control planes and workers across multiple zones in a region. We explored different options for application placement using constructs such as node selector, pod affinity, and pod anti-affinity. Each application and environment will have their own specialized needs, but this recipe should provide a starting point on how standard Kubernetes constructs can be used with Data Flow.
```
